As a student, I have firmly believed that it is necessary to take a deep look at all the topics available before choosing a field of interest. Pertaining to my beliefs, I actively explored the topics available in my undergraduate in Electrical and Electronics engineering, in which I found Computer Architecture to be the most fascinating. I was quickly intrigued in the creative ways transistors were used to create binary logic, and realized the immense depth of the subject despite only existing for the past few decades. The vast opportunities and technological impact of this field of study deeply motivates me to further my knowledge in it and contribute to the industry with novel research. With great support from my family, I strive to pursue my masters in science in Computer Engineering to work towards my ambitions.

I took a late interest in the VLSI field, with the introduction of the course “Analog and Digital VLSI Design”. Fascinated by the topic, I took up the additional elective course “Computer Architecture” in the following semester, which exposed me to the creative endeavors by the engineers and scientists to achieve the processing power we have today. My interest and dedication helped me achieve an 'A' grade in both the courses, and my lecturer suggested me to take up further opportunities in the field. Eager to know about the recent developments in the field, I took the opportunity to intern in Intel India Technologies.

I interned in the RTL integration department of Intel for 6 months, where I worked on enhancing the SRAM memory selection process used in chip designs. The existing selection algorithms prove to be cumbersome for the designer as they had to manually estimate and compare the design space to make a selection, and it is able to be performed only by experienced personnel. My manager, Srisurya Konduri, provided me with his idea to make the process more quantitative and user-friendly. In the new approach, all the possible combinations of memory instances are ranked according to the weighted average of power and area, with the weights assigned corresponding to the focus of the SoC chip in consideration. After pruning the instances which do not satisfy required performance, the top ranked instance will be selected for further design process. Under his assistance, I implemented this algorithm for an already completed SoC project, which produced the same optimal result as what experienced designers had chosen. This led to a conference paper titled “Quantitative Approach to SRAM Memory Selection” to be presented in a private conference in Intel India Technologies, Bangalore in December. This activity exposed me to the concept of SRAM memories and the importance of reducing its area and power consumption at an SoC level. In my internship, I also contributed in other projects by assisting with perl scripts, and integrating Intellectual Properties (IP). I had the opportunity to learn about boot up and sleep states, along with the widely used communication protocols such as USB, SPI and AMBA.

Eager to keep up with the latest fields of research , I found that neural networks and artificial intelligence are used to improve the design flows. It prompted me to undertake the courses of neural network and artificial intelligence, which helped me to obtain a project in neural networks under Prof. Rajesh Kumar Tripathy. It was aimed at creating a classifier for differentiating electroencephalogram (EEG) brain signals to focal or non focal signals. The project involved using Sliding Mode Singular Spectrum Analysis (SM-SSA) to decompose the signal into its spectral components, and passing them into a Deep Layer Radial Basis Function Neural Network (DL-RBFN) for classification. Under my professor, I contributed by coding the neural network and optimizing its parameters, along with fine-tuning the SM-SSA signal decomposition technique with regular grid search. With high classification accuracy, the paper got accepted to be published in the IEEE sensors journal, titled “Discrimination of Focal and Non-Focal Seizures from EEG Signals Using Sliding Mode Singular Spectrum Analysis”.

Apart from my academics, I have engaged in various volunteer activities in my campus. With a budding interest in video creation, I joined the Department of Visual Effects, tasked with video editing and video capture. Working as a team helped me interact with many students and faculty, adding to my social skills significantly. Additionally, it also increased my technical skills with video and image editing software.

I have firmly chosen to pursue my masters in the course of Computer Engineering as it encompasses all of my interests. With state of the art facilities, I am convinced that the Georgia Institute of Technology will provide me with one of the best learning experiences and opportunities for my career. I will be greatly honored to pursue my masters in your esteemed university and I hope to obtain acceptance for the same.
