
It is a pleasure to write a letter of recommendation for T Siddharth. I have known Siddharth as his instructor in the course of Computer Architecture in his sixth semester in Jan-May 2019. In this one year, I have observed that he holds deep respect for his academics and is dedicated to his assigned work.

Throughout my lectures, he was attentive and engrossed in the topics, and actively participated in the discussions. He did comprehensive work in his assigned course project, where he designed a MIPS like processor with a limited instruction set . During this project, he showed clear understanding of the MIPS architecture and developed verilog programming skills. His quick learning and hard work earned him an ‘A’ grade in the course, standing 2nd in the whole class. He recently approached me to take up a project under me in the topic of ”Multi Valued Logic Circuits” in the upcoming semester, and has shown strong motivation to pursue higher education in VLSI. Besides his academic endeavors under me, I have heard of his active participation in the other courses and projects. Knowing that he has published a research paper in one of his projects, I am assured of his capabilites to pursue graduate studies. He presents his ideas confidently, and attempts to explain them from the base, sometimes even when unnecessary.

I firmly believe Siddharth will be of strong competence in your esteemed university with his hard work and dedication. With no reservations, I strongly recommend him for admittance in his desired course of computer engineering.
