I have always been fascinated by computers. The flexibility of its applications and its widespread usage made me extremely curious about their detailed design. This was reflected in my undergraduate in Electrical and Electronics Engineering, where I developed a keen interest in the field of VLSI and computer logic. The complex nature and the far reaching applications of these topics motivate me to further my knowledge in this domain by pursuing a masters in Computer Engineering and contribute to the field with novel research. 

I took a late interest in the VLSI field, with the introduction of the course “Analog and Digital VLSI Design”. I was quickly intrigued by the creative ways transistors were used, and realized the immense depth of the subject despite only existing for the past few decades. This pushed me to take up an additional elective course “Computer Architecture” , which exposed me to the creative endeavors by the engineers and scientists to achieve the processing power we have today. My passion towards circuits helped me achieve an ‘A’ grade in both courses, and persuaded me to take up an internship opportunity in this field.

I was selected to intern in Intel India Technologies in the RTL integration department for 6 months, in which I worked on enhancing the SRAM memory selection process used in chip designs. The existing selection methods make it cumbersome for the designer as he has to manually estimate and compare the design space to make a selection, able to be performed only by experienced personnel. My mentor, Srisurya Konduri, provided me with his idea to make the process more quantitative and user-friendly. In the proposed flow, all the possible combinations of memory instances are ranked according to the weighted average of power and area, with the weights assigned corresponding to the focus of the SoC chip in consideration. Finally, the top ranked memory instance, which is also meeting performance requirements will be selected for further design process. Under him, I implemented the algorithm for a project, which produced the same optimal result as what experienced designers had chosen. This led to a conference paper titled “Quantitative Approach to SRAM Memory Selection” to be presented in the TechBuzz 2019 conference in Intel India Technologies Bangalore in December. This activity exposed me to the concept of SRAM memories and the importance of reducing its area and power consumption at an SoC level. In my internship, I also contributed in other projects by assisting with perl scripts, and integrating Intellectual Properties (IP). I had the opportunity to learn about boot up and sleep states, along with the widely used communication protocols such as USB, SPI and AMBA.

Eager to keep up with the latest fields of research in circuit designing, I found that neural networks and artificial intelligence are used to improve the design flows. It prompted me to undertake the courses of neural network and artificial intelligence, which helped me work on a project on Neural Networks under Prof. Rajesh Kumar Tripathy. It was aimed at creating a classifier for differentiating electroencephalogram (EEG) brain signals to focal or non focal signals. The project involved using Sliding Mode Singular Spectrum Analysis (SM-SSA) to decompose the signal into its spectral components, and passing them into a Deep Layer Radial Basis Function Neural Network (DL-RBFN) for classification. In this joint effort, I contributed by coding the neural network and optimizing its parameters, along with fine-tuning the SM-SSA signal decomposition technique with regular grid search. With high classification accuracy, the paper got accepted to be published in the IEEE sensors journal, titled “Discrimination of Focal and Non-Focal Seizures from EEG Signals Using Sliding Mode Singular Spectrim Analysis”.

Apart from my academics, I engaged in various volunteer activities in my campus. With a budding interest in video creation, I joined the Department of Visual Effects, tasked with video editing and video capture. Working as a group helped me interact with many students and faculty, adding to my social skills significantly. Additionally, it also increased my technical skills with video and image editing software.

I have firmly decided to pursue my postgraduate in the field of VLSI, and after graduation I intend to work and contribute to my desired field with novel research. With leading state of the art facilities, I am convinced that the University of California San Diego will provide me with one of the best learning experiences and opportunities for my career in the course of Computer Engineering. I am highly interested in the works of Dr. Kenneth Y. Yun and I believe that I can contribute to his research work with my experience in design automation from Intel India. I will be greatly honored to pursue my masters in your esteemed university and I hope to obtain acceptance for the same.
